---
layout: post
title: "Amid this pandemic"
date: 2020-08-13
excerpt: This is an absolutely unprecedented time, I need to jog down what I've been seeing and observing to vent myself out and heal. 
tags: thoughts 

---
<b>My Story </b>

When the Covid-19 was still at its early age in China, which is probably around January, I got an internship in Norway in summer as a student software engineer. I was overexcited since it was supposed to be my very first time to step on the European continent and I could visit a very close personal friend of mine in Paris and we even started to plan our always-dreaming trip to Iceland. Not only just a wonderful summer, but this was also a very first and important internship for me since I finally made up my mind not to pursue a PhD but dive into the industry. On the other hand, I am also planning to seek jobs in Europe. 

I could still remember how excited I was when I checked my email and saw the offer letter on January 15th and roughly three months later, another email came in the night stating my internship got cancelled because of the worldwide outbreak of Covid-19. Yes, though for software development, doing remote could always be a solution without any doubt. However, Norway has a very strict and complicated tax system which forces the company into taking their promise back from international interns. I was at a loss, not the tremendous time I had already put into filling all the administrative documents or the money I had invested in booking my rent in Norway but also my career planning crashed overnight. I didn't sleep that night. I was actually super awake and all I could do was solving out a coding problem that I was stuck on for a while.

I could not say I am quite a resilient person. But I just learned a great lesson soon after this whole thing had happened which was <span style="background-color: #AED6F1  ">always have a plan B if you want to be happy in adulthood</span>. And at least, I found more one more potential career path taking into my education background, which is not that bad. And I was already lucky enough, I just lost an internship like many others on this planet. But some people lost their jobs, their beloved family members. 


Trying to avoid letting myself down again, I devoted myself to my thesis for a while and sometimes do some job hunting if I am in that mood. Last week, I found a really promising internship in technology, energy industry, European company. Great! And the interviewer appreciates me! I thought I could now again, start my sailing off. But it turned out that interviewer is an engineer and he has no decision making right. The HR said I must prove that I register as a full-time student until next March and I have to go China to do the internship though they posted the position as remote. I will be graduating this September, and due to the naughty and unpredictable personality of virus, I can't promise I will meet their requirements. And this time, I learned that I need a student status to do most of the internships, post graduation opportunities are rare. Second, I might have to find a job in a filed that has very little overlap with my major without any industrial experience. Cool, seems like the game enters the hard mood. This is not the worst part, because of the great recession, the job competition this year could be even more fierce. 

Again, I am right in a situation where I don't quite know what to do with my life. And <span style="background-color: #AED6F1  ">all I could do was play those songs over and over again</span>.
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ARt9HV9T0w8"><b>I will survive </b></a>by Gloria Gaynor</li>
  <li><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5GHXEGz3PJg"><b>Hunger </b></a>by Florence and the Machine</li>
  <li><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k4V3Mo61fJM"><b>Fix you </b></a>by Coldplay</li>
</ul>

<b>Some Inspirations </b>

For introverts like me, I guess we usually shut ourselves down and have some personal time when we find life is harder than what we have expected before. Here are some stuff I found truly inspiring during myself lockdown.

<p style="font-family:verdana;color:rgb(93, 173, 226);"><a href="https://gerritsn.people.stanford.edu/wzzn-mental-health-common-good">"I am gay man, I am HIV+, I am bipolar. I am Professor of Geological Sciences at our esteemed institution."</a><p>
<!--<p style="font-family:verdana;color:rgb(255,0,0);">-->

And the amazing <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dean_Kamen">Dean Kamen</a>! 

I know it's super plain to say something like "hang in there, you will survive" given such a chaos is happening at this moment. But you know there's always a but..